Vision lakiani welcome back to the show
Tom so good to be back here brother I'm
super excited and what is the number one
habit that you think all successful
people have that everybody watching this
should adopt immediately now I know you
think I'm gonna say meditation I know
you think that everybody thinks that but
that's not it okay the number one habit
is actually not a habit at all it is a
belief that leads to a habit and that
belief is that the number one thing in
your life is your rate of growth so I
call it you should believe that your
rate of growth is high you should know
you should believe that the most
important thing in your life is not your
family it's not your business it's not
your money it's how fast are you
evolving and growing the word to
remember is Rose rate of self-evolution
so let me tell you where this comes from
okay this actually comes from a very
prominent MBA Professor by the name of
Sri Kumar Rao so SRI Kumar Rao
um he was speaking at one of my events
and after the event he came and he told
me Vision you know what is the problem
with MBA programs in America and I go
what and he says they don't teach
Consciousness so I said that they do and
he goes no no no no you're confusing
Consciousness with ethics since Enron
everybody teaches ethics Consciousness
is what we need to teach people so I'm
like what exactly do you mean and he
goes let me explain it to you
Consciousness means this that you are a
soul having a human experience and what
your soul craves is growth more than
anything else you think your of business
matters you think your marriage matters
you think your children matter but let's
just talk about business your business
doesn't matter if your business makes a
million billion dollars who cares if
your business fails who cares what
matters is did you grow your business is
nothing more than one of the most
powerful vehicles for your personal
growth the funny thing is so are your
relationships funny thing is so are your
children your quest in life is to grow
and grow and grow now if this becomes
your belief all your habits align with
this belief are you making time in your
day to improve yourself are you making
time in your day to read to study to
watch impact Theory to do a mind Valley
Quest are you making time to meditate
because that helps you grow to exercise
because that helps you grow and this is
what people forget we get stuck on this
[__] hamster wheel chasing the
dollars trying to grow in our career
when we forget that none of that [__]
matters it's all about us as a
multi-dimensional human being and are we
growing
I actually agree with you violently
why though does it matter
because if you grow everything else in
your life grows right and we see this so
often with with great why does that
matter like do you so I have I'll I'll
walk you down the Garden Path and tell
me if you agree with this right so I'm
totally on board whenever somebody asks
me what's the meaning of life I would
say there's no meaning that's subscribe
to it it's meaning that you give it but
if you want to reach fulfillment do the
following work your ass off to gain a
set of skills to your point about
progressing and growing that allow you
to serve not only yourself but other
people now the reason that I think that
that should be the number one thing that
people pay attention to is because it
will give you the neurochemical state
that is most
um
satisfying maybe the right word because
it isn't like Joy eating a bowl of ice
cream having sex all of those things are
awesome Peak experiences but they
rapidly attenuate whereas fulfillment
you can be fulfilled even in the midst
of grief and so for me it's a
evolutionary
neuropsychological silver so I think I
think here's here's why it applies
fulfillment right fulfillment
fulfillment is what we want out of life
Tony Robbins said they are there are
several human needs but the two most
important human needs he he talks about
sex but the two most important he says
is the need for growth and the need for
contribution okay now trying to
contribute without growth is is like
walking backwards it doesn't make sense
if you're growing and you're becoming
the best possible human being you can be
that is often the part to contribution
if you're growing the skills that you're
growing within whether growing as an
entrepreneur growing in terms of your
health and wellness growing your
cognition ability that is going to give
you the tools to go out there and
contribute so if growth and contribution
are the pathway to fulfillment growth is
that accelerator that's why I think it's
important
yeah it's really interesting that so I
think about it from an evolutionary
perspective it's I one of the things I
find Most Fascinating about you is you
can go from Evolution to astral
projection and uh I am very firmly in
the the one camp but so I think about it
very firmly in the science camp yeah
yeah right so so am I I'm a computer
scientist I'm a computer engineer it's
just that I think that there are things
that
have been proven by science but not
agreed upon by all scientists and that's
a big difference
tell me more what do you mean by that
okay so one could talk about intuition
right
um intuition is a big part of my life I
write my books through tapping into my
intuition intuition is very similar to
that process that you talk about I
remember interviewing you once and you
spoke about thinkitation you know how
you meditate in the morning and these
ideas Flow To You Right what we don't
know is where these ideas coming from
are they coming because our brains are
suddenly hyper optimized or are they
coming from outside our brain now what
do you think I think they're coming from
outside our brain from where outside so
so now let's talk about the signs okay
don't take me into the science yet we'll
Circle back from way outside our brain
yeah I think we're gonna find the answer
when we go into Quantum biology okay
so uh
I'll give people a thumbnail sketch of
what I think Quantum biology is I'm not
at all educated in this so here's my
understanding of quantum biology
everything that we see interact with all
of it is quantum that I think is
unarguable there is no Theory of
Everything so we all know there's
something that we don't know yet that we
can't describe mathematically at least
but if we know that all of reality is
quantum then therefore by its very
nature biology must be Quantum so I have
heard people talk about things like in
your brain If you we can describe and
think about the parts that we can see in
a microscope and all that but when you
get down to the quanta you can't and so
there obviously is some function of your
brain that is almost certainly existing
and not almost certainly it must be
coming forth from the quantum realm
since we all know that on a small enough
scale everything becomes uh
so let me try to explain it in a simple
way which also can be rooted in science
okay they are they are these things that
we observe about animals that we just
don't understand for example monkeys in
a certain Island in Japan start learning
a particular way to open shellfish using
a particular rock as soon as enough
monkeys on that particular Island learn
that method the same breed of monkey on
another Island too far away from the
monkeys to swim in between start
developing that same method what is
going on there how are these monkey
brains connected another example
commonly looked at in Quantum biology is
well so tie that uh so why would that
information exchange between members of
the same species we connected are
members of the same species connected
beyond what we can see with our physical
eyes
and another example that they're looking
at is the certain migration of of
certain birds that fly thousands of
miles during a particular season and
these birds know exactly how to fly
exactly what direction so scientist
measures measured the brain of these
birds to see is it because there's
something about their brain that's
aligning with the Earth's magnetic field
and what they found is yes at a cellular
level there is something that aligns
with the Earth's magnetic field but it's
about one billion it's too small for
these birds to actually make any logical
deduction and so again one of the things
that the only explanation they can look
at is that there's something happening
at the quantum level now I'm not a
Quantum physicist I can't explain that
that is way way complex all we know is
there are certain areas of reality that
we are yet to discover
I mean our knowledge of physics is
doubling every seven years and so just
because we can't explain how something
works right now doesn't mean we can
leverage or use it and I believe
intuition is one of those things
this is really fascinating to me and I
promise you I'm exploring this with an
open mind here's how I look at it so
if you had said humans this would be a
lot easier you said monkeys and so that
gets tougher for me but first let me
I'll get to monkeys in a second because
it's far harder and I don't know I have
not heard that before so we'll set that
aside but I just read a book's
absolutely phenomenal book by Matt
Ridley called the evolution of
everything and it's basically this
debate which is if you have a
creationist view you start looking at
things as okay there's a top-down sense
it's coming from somewhere else it's
coming into your mind the
um evolutionary lens to look at it is no
no this is coming from the bottom up and
so he uses Innovation as an example and
so he's like what are the odds that two
people invent something on the same day
unless it's something coming out of the
ether and there's a really cool story
I've actually told this before so my
audience will have to forgive me but
there's this really cool story Michael
Jackson calls Quincy Jones in the middle
of the night right he's like Quincy you
got to wake up you got to wake up and
he's like Jesus Mike what's up and he's
like I just had an idea for a song we've
got to record it right now and he's like
do we really have to record it right now
and he's like yes because if we don't
Prince is going to right and he's like
what are you talking about how could
Prince know and he's like it's just it's
out there it's it's in The Ether yeah
Now Matt Ridley would say that what
they're responding to is something is
happening in culture where but it's
coming from the bottom up so it's
evolving up and now once people become
aware of it yes it does feel like it
just came from the top down because it
all happens at once but we're all in the
same soup which is why we're detecting
temperature just to use the analogy at
the same time so we're in this medium
culture that's making it feel like
something is coming from the outside but
it's actually not it's the thing that
we're in so he gives the example of
light bulbs and he's like in the west we
all think it was Thomas Edison but
there's something like seven or eight
different people in different cultures
that have been credited with no they
invented the light bulb he's like but
nobody invented the light bulb ten
thousand years ago because you didn't
have electricity and you didn't have
electricity because you didn't have XYZ
right so what you're saying it's it's
luck and timing right when I say luck I
wouldn't use that word I can't speak for
Matt Ridley but I would say that the
reason that Aviation
hit a certain point and then stopped is
because for a long time your hardest
metal was steel but Steel's too heavy
you can't create enough propulsion so
flight doesn't happen but then you get
aluminum and now because you can smelt
aluminum or however it's made it's light
enough and strong enough that you can
have Aviation but until there's another
materials breakthrough Aviation is just
sort of stalled out it's been the same
for like 60 years so while computers
have gotten faster and cheaper Aviation
hasn't changed we send people to the
moon and then that was it we haven't
created any new propulsion and all that
Michael Saylor I don't know if you know
him fascinating Guy background in
Aeronautics he said the reason that he's
turned himself into a multi-billionaire
in software even though he has a
background in Aeronautics he said
Aeronautics just stalled out it's a
materials problem it's a propulsions
problem I thought okay that's really
interesting so you have all these other
things going on in this soup of culture
that make things seem like everybody's
coming up with the same idea or failing
to come up with the same idea because of
something from the outside but it's
really a whole Confluence of all this so
I would totally disagree okay so first
so I want to share Are you a dualist I
don't know what you mean by that okay so
but but let me tell you so firstly when
we're going into an argument like this
and it's not an argument I'm really
enjoying it so fast conversation right I
don't know that I'm right I want to be
very clear yeah so so I think that there
is something that you're missing looking
at and I think there are certain
scientific studies which are worth
looking at because they show that the
world is a lot more mysterious than we
think but also there's a psychological
phenomenon
um which is is an interesting thing Ken
Wilbur calls it the pre-trans policy so
Ken Wilbur of course
pre-trans pre Dash trans t-r-a-n-s okay
you can put it on you can put it on
Google you'll find a Wikipedia article
on it so a lot of people who follow you
a lot of people in the western world
today are rationalists so if you look at
Wall Street you look at Silicon Valley
these are rationalists and rational
thinking is important to push the world
forward now rationalists is a next
evolution of human culture after we came
from religion from mythology the problem
with rationalists is that rationalists
look at spirituality and they see
spirituality as something from the past
this is called pre-rational spirituality
and so they look at the talking Bush
they look at we are born a sinner they
look at magical ideas in the Bible like
uh like demons and so on and they go God
that is like rubbish magical thinking
that doesn't exist but they fail to
understand that there's a form of
spirituality called trans-rational
spirituality meditation Falls in that
domain forgiveness practices form and
fall in that domain trans-rational
spirituality is spirituality that's
emerging in alignment with science
because with fmri scans there's so much
that we can see in the human brain now
people who are in the rational Zone they
look at they are unable to see that they
are two distinct forms of understanding
spiritual nature so they look at the
person who's talking about how
a crystal on your chest and the phase of
the moon can affect your sleep and your
moods and they're like oh God this is
such nonsense but then they put that in
the same bucket as trans-rational
spirituality which is actually being
supported by some really interesting
scientific evidence you must understand
that there are two when I wrote my book
the six base meditation I'm talking
about trans-rational spirituality I back
everything I talk about with scientific
evidence and in some cases I say look
there's no signs for this but millions
of people do this practice because they
notice something changing themselves so
the first thing is you don't want to
fall in the pre-trans policy we're not
talking about burning bushes here we're
not talking about magic and mythology
we're talking about trans-rational
spirituality and there are some really
fascinating scientific trans-rationality
for me let me give you an idea so is it
a cross doesn't mean a cross rationality
spirituality that's emerging past the
age of rationality okay right you look
at the yoga movement you know I was
talking to the founder of Gaia
um he was talking about how he wanted to
get yoga on that said he was selling in
some major department stores this was
2003 and they said nope we can't sell
yoga mats because we don't do religion
today you can buy yoga mats everywhere
the world is changing really fast
you look at meditation and forgiveness
studies there's an exponential rise
exponential in the number of studies on
the benefits of meditation on human
health I mean one of the things we know
right now proven by science meditation
improves telomere length which is a
biomarker of Aging so you want to live
longer you got to freaking meditate so
this is what we mean by the domain of
trans-rational spirituality now what I
argue is that there are two aspects of
trans-rational spirituality that are
about to explode in the public domain
and these two aspects are this the idea
that our minds are connected that there
is some information flow between me and
you between you and other people and
I'll share with you some stunning
evidence to support this and the second
that our mind can influence our bodies
that when you think about your wife Lisa
in a positive loving way their actual
physiological changes that happen in her
body and again there's evidence for this
these two things show that we are more
deeply connected than we think and these
two ideas are also a basis of of my new
book
okay so I want to make sure that we're
careful to separate some things your
book Is Amazing by the way I've read it
cover to cover I I'm such a freakish
adorant of meditation
um what you cover in the book I think if
people do they will benefit tremendously
so I don't want people to think that I'm
I'm
um yeah that I'm pushing back on the
book
but I want to go back to this idea of
dualism for a second so dualism as I
understand it and this is probably
something I could learn a lot more but
my my overly basic understanding is that
dualism is that there is a separation
between your body the physical body and
your soul uh so people that believe that
those two things are separate you can
live after death and all of that I am
not a dualist so for me I can't I have a
fundamental base assumption about the
way the world Works Quantum or no
quantum
look I under at a really basic level I
understand quantum entanglement I
understand information Theory everything
that we're doing in Project Kaizen is
actually a it's a story based on my
Layman's understanding of information
Theory so like I get it fascinated by it
super interesting and I think despite
that even reaching into the future and
saying hey all of that's true that
quantum computers will use quantum
entanglement and superposition and all
of that stuff
um I still don't think that there's a
separation between the body and the soul
and you could be right we're not even
talking about that that is I don't know
what that answer is so I hope I don't
offend anyone here but I believe that we
should raise you definitely children
offended people we should raise children
to as to to gain their own beliefs so
when I was educating my my son when he
was seven years old we watched Neil
deGrasse Tyson's documentary Cosmos and
I asked myself so my son is the product
of multiple religions his mom is
Lutheran and Russian Orthodox I grew up
in a Hindu family and I asked explain to
him the ideas of life and death in all
of these religions from Christianity to
Russian Orthodox to Hinduism and then I
explained Neil deGrasse Tyson's Theory
but after we die we simply become United
with the Earth and we are made of
Stardust and we return back someday the
sun's going to explode it's going to
engulf the Earth we will return back to
Stardust and I asked my son at eight
which belief most resonates with you and
he said I like Neil I like the Stardust
Fury so that's how my children are
raised they are not raised as dualists
but this is what fascinates me
there was a study done at the University
of Edinburgh and it's a very famous
study it's called the ganspiel test
study so they separated people into two
groups in one group people were in a
room and they were called senders and
they were shown one of four Images so
these images could be a tank rolling
through a battlefield it could be a
horse running through water it could be
Mount Fuji and then the second group
they were put in a sensory deprivation
chamber right so basically like a salt
tank they were floating in a salt tank
they were super relaxed mellow
meditative music now the researchers
would ask the senders to
of the four pictures the senders were
shown one and they had to imagine that
they could
tell the receiver mentally what they
were seeing relay that information to
the receiver now they wake up the
receiver they ask they show the receiver
the four pictures and they said shoes
choose what your sender is seeing now of
course these people are not in any form
of physical contact with each other
probability wise what would they choose
correct 25 right one out of four but
what the University of Edinburgh found
is that the actual
correct answer was 33 it was one out of
three
now they can't explain it they are not
saying that oh these senders are psychic
or whatever all they are saying is there
is some information transfer that's
happening
and it's affecting the odds of
probability of these receivers
perceiving the right information I'm
gonna stab in the dark here I don't know
about it I don't know the study I could
be wrong caveat caveat caveat right but
I could see where one you're already
limiting the universe down to four
things you know it could be one of the
four and then if people have an aversion
to tanks I don't want them to be sending
me the tank I would prefer they'd be
sending me the puppy dog face or
whatever
um so I could see something like that
skewing it to where you get an answer
like that remember that the pictures are
that the centers don't get to choose
what they want to send right I mean this
study was corrected for all of these
things and there are multiple studies
that show similar results that there's
an information flow between people now
this is not scientific in fact it's
quite for instance do you think that it
would remain 33 if there were a hundred
images
um so they were they are studies like
this and what they show is that there's
the odds of guessing correctly typically
tend to be high there was another study
so let's talk about that there was
another study done by professor John
mahalaski at the Newark College of
Engineering it was a study on CEOs and
intuition so this was a very simple
study CEOs had to guess a specific card
type again five cards your odds of
guessing correctly are 20 certain CEOs
could guess 23 24 25 correct now this is
done over hundreds of Trials now here's
what was interesting about mehalovski
study he found that the CEOs that seem
to guess correctly more often it also
correlated with profitability increase
in their companies
so again we there is multiple studies
that show that certain people guess
correctly more often outside the loss of
probability I believe and but and also
these studies also show that this
guessing tends to happen when we're in a
relaxed State of Mind
is happening there I believe in you I
believe that there is something called
intuition there's something called
intuition and that in some way all human
beings are connected but does that mean
that the the universe quote unquote is
broadcasting the right answer and you
just have to be in tune we don't know
and it's dangerous to make assumptions
like that
but what we know is this why you can
it's dangerous to make assumptions like
that because
it it may take you down the wrong path
but let's go back to what you do you
meditate in the morning and you say
incredible ideas come to you you call it
incotation what these studies are
showing and what you're doing when
you're meditating is you're going in a
relaxed State all these studies are
showing us that when you go in a relaxed
state
information is clearer to the point
where sometimes information that you
shouldn't know you seem to know at
higher than odds of probability
we can't explain how it works can you
give me an example I shouldn't know
something so so the CEOs who are
guessing these cards correctly they
shouldn't theoretically be able to guess
out of five cards Beyond a 20
probability the gansfield test
experiments at the University of
Edinburgh there is something that's
causing this fluidity of Mind where
you're getting information at an easy
array that could explain why
thinkitation works for you
it's interesting I would definitely I'm
super curious to look at these studies
anything that gives me an edge I'm off
yeah well a good book on it a good book
on it is best evidence by Michael
schmicker or the conscious best evidence
best evidence by Michael schmicker he
was a journalist who was asked to debunk
all of this and he became a Believer
another book is
um the conscious Universe by Dean radden
PhD
these books
um beautiful meta-analysis of all of
these studies
so I love that we're going down this
path yeah so let's
um
let's go back I wanted to ask you a
question so if you were designing the
way the world worked would you design
this thing in where hey the more you
relax the more that you can pick up on
this frequency
yes absolutely you wouldn't make it more
but I wouldn't but but if you're
teaching this in schools you're not
talking about intuition what what we
know for sure is that when you're in a
relaxed State creative ideas flow quit
so here's how I so we actually my
um my wife is the lead on a project that
we're doing called The Wish Academy and
the main girls original superpower was
going to be intuition and I was like
Over My Dead Body and Lisa was like why
can't we make intuition a superpower and
I said because intuition has to be
trained I think people have intuition
but you're not going to have intuition
about something that you it's completely
abstract like let's say
um intuition about
uh Alien biology right something where
if something completely a nine-year-old
that's never encountered human biology
suddenly has intuition about something
that literally it could not be more even
that it would have to be non-dna based
because even that like if you grew up in
a DNA a based society is possible
there's something there but to have
intuition about something to which you
truly know nothing I think is basically
a zero percent chance of that but if
you've grown up studying something
thinking about something this is why I
thinkitation works for me is I'm now
able to quiet my mind such that areas in
my brain that don't normally talk to
each other begin talking and so it can
off one side of my mind let's say a more
creative side can offer up to my logical
side well what about this really random
thing that you never would have put
together through Association exactly and
I've had these conversations with with
people like Stephen cobbler right
Stephen Cutler teaches on Mindvalley and
and we had a we had a conversation on
this and I asked even what do you
believe in he says look when you rest
your mind Stephen is a rationalist he
doesn't believe in intuition but he
believes there's some there's some
optimization of your brain state so
answers come to you faster and that's
all we are talking about you don't have
to believe in intuition to the sixth
space in fact that word that topic isn't
even discussed in this book but what we
do say is that creativity is magnified
when you're able to access these states
and this multiple times it's been proven
the most recent experiment they wanted
to see if Edison was famous for taking
his afternoon nap so they wanted to see
is there something to Edison's napping
practice right was there something to
his napping practice that made him come
up with all of these investors that held
the metal ball over the place yeah yeah
there was the story that Edison holds a
metal ball in his hand and when he
drifts off into sleep his hand drops the
ball hits the plate creating a loud
clang it wakes him up and it helps them
solve problems so scientists did this
with a group of people and they were
given a map problem to solve one group
was told to solve it the traditional way
just you know busting your mind on it
the other group was encouraged to take
naps they found that the that napped was
80 percent better at solving the problem
so again evidence that getting in this
restful State creates a a Clarity of
mind that helps us get more creative
whether it's problems I'm just trying to
figure out the interpretation that this
is coming from the outside that there is
something that you would but you don't
have to believe that we're not even
talking about isn't it it's interesting
so I I am fascinated because I don't
share that and it seems so
it's contrary to all the base
assumptions of your rationalists and you
may be falling for the pre-trans policy
and you are stubborn about it and you're
stubborn about it now also the reason is
because there are lots of hokey people
who call themselves psychics who
manipulate others and they give a bad
name to the idea of intuition but what I
want to know is why if you were creating
the universe why would you build that in
what am I missing why would that make it
better so think about the that it's
called I think it's called a hundred
monkey Theory right this observation
that species suddenly pick up skills it
helps survival explain the hundred
monkey so I told you the monkeys a
particular group of monkeys and an
island of Japan learned to use certain
tools from each other the separated one
monkey figures this out figures out for
example how to use a rock to break open
shellfish all the other monkeys on that
island blur now that you can say is true
imitation but what happens is when it's
when a large number of monkeys on that
island learned that the same species of
monkey on an island far away
start picking up start doing the same
thing and so you don't think that that's
just a natural evolutionary process
which is why it happens at Rough why is
it so hard to believe that we don't know
everything about the world that we live
in we don't know everything about it
exactly so the knowledge of physics
doubles every seven years and so and so
all I'm saying is we we are observing
these things we're observing these
things and we know that there's
something there we can't explain it I
don't know if you've had on the show but
he says spirituality is nothing more
than physics we have yet to find an
equation for
what is up my friend Tom bilyu here and
I have a big question to ask you how
would you rate your level of personal
discipline on a scale of one to ten if
your answer is anything less than a ten
I've got something cool for you and let
me tell you right now discipline by its
very nature means compelling yourself to
do difficult things that are stressful
boring which is what kills most people
or possibly scary or even painful now
here is the thing achieving huge goals
and stretching to reach your potential
requires you to do those challenging
stressful things and to stick with them
even when it gets boring and it will get
boring building your levels of personal
discipline is not easy but let me tell
you it pays off in fact I will tell you
you're never going to achieve anything
meaningful unless you develop discipline
right I've just released a class from
Impact Theory university called how to
build Ironclad discipline that teaches
you the process of building yourself up
in this area so that you can push
yourself to do the hard things that
greatness is going to require of you
right click the link on the screen
register for this class right now and
let's get to work I will see you inside
this Workshop from Impact Theory
University until then my friends be
legendary peace out
interesting uh sure what I'm trying to
get to is one I'm always checking to see
if the things that I believe are more
likely to accurately predict the outcome
of my behaviors which will allow me to
go to my goals faster so if there is
something here that's why I was asking
like is this a better way to create the
universe
so when I look at the way that we're
solving problems in the world now is it
my base assumption is that we're making
catastrophic errors of judgment right
now at this moment in history from a
cultural perspective we're taking a
top-down approach right I think it's
dangerous and I think it's going to lead
people to some really horrific outcomes
so as I think through this and thank you
and thank you to everybody at home
that's letting me think through this in
real time because I don't have a strong
stance on this I'm really exploring
um something at the edges
so a few years ago culture started to
make its way under my radar I'd never
thought about it before I was just
trying to build businesses so I could
tell stories and that was it and then as
I stepped in front of the camera it
started to occur to me that there were
definitely a lot of things happening in
the world that I had previously been
unaware of because I had my head down
and I was just building building
and then the more I looked around the
more I saw how algorithms were pulling
us sort of down these shoots and I
wanted to seek disconfirming evidence
then I started to really think about
okay why do I believe what I believe
what is truth first of all so I have a
definition for truth which is it's that
which allows you to predict the outcome
of your behaviors or anyone's behaviors
the cause and effect that you were way
better at understanding cause and effect
predicting cause and effect that seems
like the closest thing to what is
objectively true so having Donald
Hoffman on the show I don't know if you
know him but his whole thing is
everything you think about the world is
an illusion like just from top to bottom
you don't see anything real it's all
fake but his whole thing is that
Evolution drives you to that conclusion
because it's taking you to a place where
your actions lead to the right outcomes
and while he didn't say the words that
I'm saying so I don't want to
misrepresent his beliefs that when I
think about in my own life I've always
told people do and believe that which
moves you towards your goals then the
natural question is well would you
believe something that's untrue my thing
is that doesn't sit right with me so no
is my knee-jerk reaction to that and I
was like well why wouldn't I believe
something that's untrue if it makes my
life better and I was like well how
would something untrue make my life
better and the answer is it wouldn't so
the things that make my life better
assuming that I'm well adjusted and I'm
not schizophrenic it's the things that
are going to allow me to have my
relationship be thriving have my
business be thriving to meditate and
know that it's going to help me to do
things and be able to understand woe
this is an improvement now we could take
the time to Define what I think every
human is unintentionally optimizing for
but I'll set that aside for a second so
I'm trying to get to truth meaning that
which allows me to function more
effectively in the world so let me ask
you an interesting question yep your
wife Lisa is is sick right now yep do
you believe that if you were to close
your eyes go into a restful State and
think about Lisa and feel love for her
and send her that love and imagine as if
he was sending love and goodness and
Good Vibes to her that it would help her
body heal no you don't believe that I
don't okay so that that's fine so let's
talk about being wrong let's talk about
that let's talk about that right
wouldn't be wouldn't it be amazing if
that was true the the poet Rumi said and
he spoke to lovers when he said this I
can close my eyes and talk to you in a
thousand silent ways and poetically it
sounds cool but is there practicality to
it so one of the other studies that
really interests me is this it was a
study done by Dr William broad at the
San Antonio mind Science Institute and
I'm giving these names because people
who are doubting this I want you to be
able to Google this and look into it
right so what in the study what they did
is they took several hundred people and
they put them in two rooms one was
senders one were receivers
now the receivers were hooked up to 19
different machines that measured their
biology so skin resistance which is a
biomarker of how rested you are your
heart rate your brainwave activity your
breathing and so on and at a particular
time the senders were told okay imagine
you're sending Good Vibes to the
receiver that's all good wives could be
well wishes prayers whatever you're just
thinking positively about someone
a dead specific time 1 53 PM the
receivers the doctors would monitor
things change about their biology their
skin resistance might go up which means
that they are sweating less which means
that they are getting in a more rest
with restful State they are EEG activity
might go from beta to Alpha which again
shows that they are they're relaxed
they're feeling good
and we can't explain this we can't
explain how someone thinking positive
thoughts about someone else actually
include increa influences their biology
the person being thought of no they were
being thought of no not at that
particular okay now let's say you don't
believe that you still deny the study
you don't care about William broad's
research it doesn't prevent you from
doing the six phase meditation so when
we start the six phase meditation we
actually start using a exercise to
increase love and compassion why because
compassion has been studied if you can
increase your compassion and your
kindness it improves your productivity
at work it makes you a better leader it
makes you a better boss makes you better
in your relationship but it also makes
you live longer it reduces headache it
makes you sleep better it reduces
feelings of depression and anxiety now
how do we activate uh the six phase we
start by seeing the picture of the
person on the planet you love most for
me it's my children Hayden and Eve
seeing their face feeling that love
feeling that love for them in your heart
area and then imagine
you can send that love to wider and
wider and wider Circles of humanity so I
feel the love of my daughter and my son
I feel it in my heart area and I imagine
I can beam it out to wider areas of
humanity now
it doesn't matter if you think the
William broad studies are bunk and that
this is not going to affect Humanity
what the hot mat Institute in Los Gatos
found is that by just thinking about the
person you love your heart resonance
which is another biomarker of Wellness
shifts in favorable ways within a minute
of doing this within a minute of closing
your eyes and seeing Lisa for me within
a minute of seeing my daughter Eve in my
mind's eye my heart my heart resonance
changes and heart resonance is basically
a a subtle measurement of what's going
on between your Heartbeats And it
correlates with Wellness
um it changes and so we don't you don't
have to believe that we can connect
across time and space it's been studied
and your biology directly changes from
these exercises so the sixth phase phase
one two and three are all
psycho-spiritual Transcendent techniques
and I can explain what that means that
instantly shift your biology and your
cognition so you're showing up better in
the day if you want to believe that you
can influence in a subtle way the
biology of your loved one sure you want
to believe that you can improve your
intuition sure I believe that you don't
have to believe it and I've given you
the study so you understand why I is a
computer scientist believe it but even
if you don't believe it studies show
that it does cause favorable changes in
your body over 15 000 studies
yeah the it impacting you that
experientially I was going to say that's
undeniable I won't say that but I will
say experientially and of one that's
undeniable it meditation has been
transformative in my life
the six phase meditation that you walk
people through is really awesome so the
thing that we've been
exploring is the word that suits how I
feel is whether this is coming from the
outside and whether that would be better
the inside part I've just felt I know
it's super effective and I get that I
get how the mind is going to wildly
impact your own physiology I can even
get that
it I'll say it this way if I were
diagnosed with terminal cancer tomorrow
a thousand percent I would imagine my
cells attacking it right and it melting
away and I would get myself to believe
it and I'd be like I thought this is
gonna work 100 guaranteed I would also
do all of the dietary things and
exercise and all of that stuff because
there's evidence for that right
at that point I wouldn't even really
care about evidence I would do anything
you would do anything you can could
possibly maybe have a positive effect
the exact so that's baseball face force
visualization and you can use that to
manifest your goals so even heal
yourself so the exact baseball protocol
here is from the Silva method which is
now run by Mine Valley Dr okal Simonton
the cancer research Pioneer tested this
this is crazy on a group of 159 cancer
patients um again Simonton cancer
research center and what he found was
this the average lifespan these were
patients who were terminal they were
given 12 months to lift the average
lifespan increased to 24.4 months
um I believe 17 patients went into they
saw their cancer reduce 14 zodiac Cancer
completely disappeared now again these
are 14 and 17 out of 159 right so the
odds are still only 20 30 but yeah those
odds exist and Simonton said about the
silver method is the single most
powerful tool I have to offer patients
that is in this book The Silver method
constitute shoots which is inherited by
mind value now constitutes space for so
there is evidence for this doesn't work
it didn't work for the majority of
people but it worked for enough that
it's worth looking at
no doubt I mean when it comes to that
anything is worth looking at my so my
fundamental question the thing that I am
the thing that I have a thesis around I
could not be more open to being wrong
but the thing I have a thesis around is
this idea of something coming from the
outside to me all the things you can do
on yourself and your own body all of
that makes sense I don't understand even
from just a pure Evolution so one again
to your earlier questions
do you understand the intricacies of how
your mobile phone works no that's what I
was going to say you can still use it
right yep so you don't have to
understand how it works there's enough
evidence that we are connected Beyond
time and space there is enough evidence
for that that suggests that that may be
real fast if somebody were to tell me
hey you don't understand the way your
mobile phone works right yeah correct
but you still use it correct but if
somebody's telling me hey all you have
to do is think I hope my wife calls me
and then she'll call me that's where I'm
like uh I think it's better for me to
send her a text and say no I'm not
saying that what we are saying so but no
I never said that so you're putting
words in my mouth what I said is and I
encourage you to try it if you think
beautiful loving thoughts about your
wife Lisa there is a subtle shift a
subtle shift in her biology and in her
emotional states because
you are connected that's all I'm saying
and I'm saying and when and whether that
is true or not it's a beautiful idea
because why shouldn't you think
beautiful thoughts about the people you
love agreed it's a fascinating idea but
remember I go back to what is going to
allow me to better predict the outcome
of my behavior so that will certainly
help me I don't know that it will help
her but I remain curious so going back
do you have a hypothesis around why the
universe would be constructed in a way
where there is this
I don't know what word you would use
truth right answer whatever that's being
broadcast why would that be better than
say just being born with that
information already inside of you
well I think if we were born with all
the information we need inside of us
what would be the point of Discovery
what would be the point of innovation
all of this information in front of us
so I have a hypothesis about how things
work I call it a hypothesis for a reason
because I don't know I have no idea if
this will end up panning out but in my
quest to be able to predict the outcome
of my behaviors I need a working idea
right so my working idea right now is
that things are completely blindly
constructed from the ground up from an
evolutionary perspective meaning the the
idea Richard Dawkins idea of a blind
watchmaker so you get a watch it seems
so incredibly complex how could this
ever have been created if it wasn't
created specifically to tell time right
or the example that's often used How
could an eye have ever been created if
it wasn't designed to see right
and so my thing is that the idea of a
truth being broadcast and we have to
learn to
relax so that we can receive something
from the outside that breaks my entire
model of the world it does so now I'm
trying to to build a new model I need I
need to understand how all the pieces
can exactly so that's what I'm trying to
get to you have to understand how the
pieces connect but you also have to
understand what your World Views are
because if you have a world view that is
resistant to this model you're not going
to be able to see it Ken Wilbur talks
about this in terms of World Views
people across the world fall into
different buckets of World Views you
have the militaristic worldview like
people of North Korea you have the
religious worldview like people of uh
Evangelical States or a country like
Iran you have the spiritual world view
that you see in burning man you have the
rational worldview of Wall Street the
problem is all of these worldviews think
they are 100 correct and they look at
the other World Views and Ken Wilbur's
uh words as goofy
and thus immediately you shut down there
is some truth in all of these World
Views what you want is an integrated or
integral world view where you can
understand where all of these views come
from their historical narratives and
what is truth and what is untruth that's
the most important thing so really we're
talking about moving to in terms of
World Views the purple or the integral
level of the Consciousness Spectrum why
purple that's just the color so Ken will
be used as a color code to Define it you
don't want to say level one level two
level three because that implies that
one is higher than the other right when
you go with colors colors do not
dominate each other you don't have a
dominant a dominating hierarchy
very interesting okay so I'm saying you
got to you you can study all of the
science but if your world view is locked
in one area and you haven't moved on to
Instagram so what happens is that it
becomes harder
so
I I am so obsessed with what is useful
I'm certainly not dogmatic in my
thinking
but I only bring things into my world
view if I can see how the pieces connect
and try them out and use them right so
for instance the example I've used very
often is when we were first introduced
to Newtonian physics it was like oh my
God this let you predict how planets
moved it 100 it's accurate then we get
Einstein's relativity then general
relativity or sorry general relativity
then special I can't remember which one
came first but both layering on and so
we realized oh my God Newtonian physics
wasn't actually as right right and by
getting the further information around
relativity now we're able to do things
like GPS and all of the incredible
things nuclear power and all of that
so the more right you can be it really
is world changing yeah so I'm looking
for that next breakthrough I would love
for this to be the next breakthrough I'm
just trying to figure out
I don't think it's an unwillingness or a
stubbornness for me to figure this out I
just need to understand how these pieces
connect
setting that aside I'm not sure we're
going to get much farther with that and
I don't want to end up in like a whole
debate about truth and then it just
spirals into madness right that's
totally fast but I'm loving this
discussion because it's so different
from any other interviews I've had on
this book well to be clear we haven't
even gotten to the book yet like we will
I don't want people to think that
anything that we've talked about so far
what I've been trying to explore is this
idea that something's coming from the
outside okay setting that aside
how did you come down to the six things
in the six phase protocol why not seven
why not four so it started out this way
I was a former Silicon Valley exact I
discovered meditation and it completely
changed the course of my career I was in
Silicon Valley during a really horrible
time 2001 the.com Bubble Burst and then
September 11 hit I lost my job I lost
all my money I lost the money I borrowed
from my father to stop my company I was
sleeping on a friend's couch and I
remember I was so broke I couldn't even
fix the brakes on my car and I crashed
into a mini bag
um
carrying two kids right unfortunately
nothing happened that I was it was a
horrible time I had to pay for all of
that and as a result I couldn't even
afford rent so it was during this time
that I stumbled upon meditation I was
Googling online for answers I was trying
to figure out why my life sucks so bad
and that practice of meditation that I
learned completely shifted me I had a
job at that point really low level in
four months I went from low level entry
level to Vice President of Sales because
I was just so good at my job as I
started bringing in these protocols that
I was learning from meditation protocols
such as being able to be really peaceful
and Zen it's called Equanimity during
stress so you can focus better being
able to increase your levels of
creativity so you have better ideation
being able to visualize your goals and
then move towards them
and so I stayed with the company for 18
more months and then I was thinking man
this stuff all the stuff I learned that
my electrical engineering and computer
science degree from the University of
Michigan which I paid maybe a quarter
million dollars for in that time's money
was nowhere as useful as this weekend
meditation class so I decided to quit
and become a meditation instructor so I
did that for five years during that time
I built mind Valley mind Valley became a
massive company with about 100 million
in revenue valuations of a billion
with no VC funding no investors no bank
loans and I attribute it to this
practice of meditation being able to go
within building up Mindvalley there were
at least three times I almost lost it
all but being able to go within being
able to to
train your brain to even go through that
level of Chaos
help me as an entrepreneur and so
10 years ago
at this point I'd interviewed you know
hundreds of people today I've
interviewed thousands of people across
all mine Valley programs all Mindvalley
podcasts and platforms and I wanted to
build a personal growth practice for
myself that I would have the discipline
to do every morning and I wanted
something that I could do in 15 minutes
because I'm busy we're busy we're all
busy that would give me the maximum
benefit in the tiniest teeniest amount
of time and that was the sixth face
there were six practices that I found
now these are not traditional
meditations so if you're a hardcore
meditation purist this book will
probably piss you off right
but these are six practices they are
called psycho spiritual Transcendent
technique cycle because many of them are
rooted in Psychology spirituality
because many of them do have a spiritual
ideology to it as well not religious
spirituality again big difference Define
the difference for me we'll come to that
and then transcend it because you're
going within you're disconnecting from
the outside world you're going with it
and everything is running your head okay
now these six practices have been proven
by science to create a massive positive
impact in your life
um the first one has to do with
compassion the second one have to has to
do with happiness the third has to do
with forgiveness
now these three constitute your emotions
in the present but in today's world it's
not just enough to be Blissful in the
present we gotta go out there we we want
to build companies we want to change the
world we want to create revolutions so
the next four phases four five and six
are about that they're about creating
they're about action phase four is about
seeing a goal of yours that's three
years out and and getting yourself
energized for that goal phase five is
about organizing and commanding the
perfect most productive day for yourself
all in your mind and phase six is where
you connect this with whatever is your
spiritual or religious belief or your
personal belief you ask for a blessing
and that's it that's the sixth phase now
I got picked up by um by Elite athletes
uh Tony Gonzalez who's one of the top
NFL uh players
um was TR I trained him on this he spoke
about this in multiple Publications
Reggie Jackson of the LA Clippers has
spoken about this create one of the
craziest stories Bianca andrescue she
attended a class on the sixth face and
at 19
. she started at 16 she started
visualizing herself beating Serena
Williams at the U.S open at 19 September
2019 Bianca was 19 years old she beat
Serena Williams won the US Open when
they asked her how did you do it she
said where's my phone where's my phone
and then she pulled up my book my first
book which talked about the sixth face
she was a graduate of one of my classes
and she tweeted about it so um she
credited it in part partially with
helping her win the US Open and then
rock stars and celebrities started
talking about it Gerard Butler the actor
said if everybody did this the world
would be a more peaceful compassionate
Place Miguel the r b star who who did
the song remember to forget one of my
favorite songs he gave an article in
billboard magazine and he spoke about
doing the six phase with his Entourage
before his concerts before going on
stage now these people do it because
when you're when you're filming a movie
when you're getting on stage when you're
in a car you instantly feel that
difference but it also works for
entrepreneurs so many entrepreneurs were
built massive companies do this and
credit this with giving them the
fortitude the drive the power the mental
well-being to do what they do because
entrepreneurs are basically athletes
building a product
yeah I love that one thing I've talked
about with businesses it's the sport
that you can play forever so you don't
have to worry about your body giving out
which is wonderful uh like I said at the
beginning the the six phase meditation
method I think is really fantastic it
really would make the world a far better
place it will certainly impact people
um
there are aspects of this that I think
are worth really diving into so one the
idea of gratitude why why is that the
place to start why is it so impactful
why so many people talk about this I can
vouch for it my own life but what what's
the juice behind it so so firstly we
start with compassion gratitude is face
too okay now let's talk about let's jump
into phase two and talk about gratitude
so gratitude according to science is the
human characteristic most widely
associated with well-being that means if
there's one quality that you can adopt
that is proven scientifically to produce
overall well-being it's this it's
gratitude do we know why
there are different theories but but
here's what we know we know that when
you can elevate your levels of happiness
you perform better at work your health
improves your peace of mind improve you
sleep better just just the work benefits
are really startling Sean acre of
Harvard University wrote a book called
The Happiness Advantage and this book is
is is really good he speaks about how
studies on on gratitude and happiness
show that when we're happy we do so much
better at everything doctors are 19
better at diagnoses sales people are 55
better at closing sales and then there's
the whole study of emotions the study
specifically they measure your emotional
states using a concept called PQ or
positivity quotient so PQ is your ratio
of good thoughts to overall thoughts
right the more positive you are the
higher your PQ now here's the crazy
thing
who wrote the book PQ he cites a study
that shows that the num the only thing
that predicts the behavior of teams that
correlates with high productivity on
teams is not the leader it's not the
strategy it's not the amount of bagels
you serve during a team meeting it is PQ
the overall feeling of the people on
that team and so we are seeing that
happiness doesn't just make us feel good
it's rocket feel for productivity it's
rocket fuel for people like you and me
that want to go out and do big things in
the world
No Doubt
I when I think about one of the the
mindset that an entrepreneur has to have
is both
optimistic and accurate basically so you
need a vision of the world that is true
and optimistic
I would say that you need to be
optimistic because if you're not then
you're just not going to take action do
you think that there's something else
going on or is it just that that it
allows you the belief that like hey this
might actually work right and therefore
you move forward so I think that if we
think of ourselves purely from a
biological perspective right
our brains perform better when the right
chemicals are being released serotonin
dopamine oxytocin the practice of
gratitude releases the right chemicals
you're building your business based on
the quality of your brain
if your brain is in a healthy State
you're better able to get access into
states of focused states of flow states
of creativity States Of Way states of
cognition where your processing speed is
is better
and gratitude is one of those ways to
optimize your thinking optimize your
brain ultimately you're building your
business with your brain and I think
that's why it works that's why so many
studies show that we do our work best
when we are happiest
talk to me about visualization
you go into a lot of detail in the book
I particularly liked your story about
your Taekwondo competition uh be careful
what you visualize
um
why is visualization important and how
do we do it well I think I think why
it's important so visualization is
important if you do it at a particular
brainwave state so if you're visualizing
at the waking state which is beta now
this is measured through a device called
an EEG it means an electroencephalograph
it means your brain is beating it around
14 to 21 cycles per second I don't know
if it's effective the studies that show
it's effective show that it works when
you're doing it at a relaxed State and
that's why you do it when you meditate
right so visualization
does two things one it actually affects
your biology and two it actually affects
your performance so again let's talk
about studies uh there'll be numerous
studies that show that visualizing
yourself getting better healing can
actually help increase your your rate of
healing
and then there's performance there were
studies on basketball players uh Alan
Richardson I believe he's a psychologist
in in Australia he found that
visualizing yourself shooting hoops and
seeing it land in the basket is almost
as effective as actually practicing in
the course practicing the court produced
at 25
increase in performance visualization
alone 24 increase do you have to
visualize like because I know Arnold
Schwarzenegger talks about the same
thing he does the same and he's like
you've got to imagine visualize growing
in the mountains the contraction
if you're practicing the basketball one
do they have to like feel it feel
emotionally feel the ballroom yeah so
this this is what optimizes it you feel
the emotion you feel the Elation every
time you hit that hoop so the feelings
are do you need to feel the physicality
or just the Elation the more you can
feel the better so in fact I believe
it's all about feeling
right because it's not about what you
see someone who is born blind can still
practice this it's about what you feel
so let's say you want you want to build
your business your business is at one
million in Revenue you want to get it up
to 10 million in Revenue you visualize
that you visualize how would you dress
how would you feel what would your
office look like how would you treat
people what would your day go like and
if and I'm not saying you're creating
magic that's making this happen I'm
saying you're conditioning your brain to
believe I could do this and you're
conditioning yourself to take on the
right feelings the right behaviors that
then show up in your life
the more you take on these behaviors the
more you start believing something is
possible that's going to give you the
impetus to actually get there I took my
business to 100 million Revenue about a
billion in valuation you've done the
same thing I bet you you never stop
dreaming of the next level in the next
level in the next level and I did the
same
and so to me visualization was always
part of my daily practice no matter
where I was in business I always
visualize the next level
it's interesting you're giving me a lot
of credit thank you it's very kind I
don't think I was as systematic as I
would advise other people to be I think
that the way that you walk people
through it is far better than what I
actually did
um I was really just focused on what do
I need to learn what do I have to get
better at but I visualization feels like
an underutilized thing for me because
every time I do it so I in Impact Theory
University I'm always telling people you
should be surprised by failure don't
rehearse it now that's me giving me the
advice that I needed because I would sit
there and unintentionally visualize
things going wrong so that I could be
prepared to like how do I extricate
myself from this especially because uh
for a long time I suffered from just
debilitating anxiety
my anxiety was largely diet related so
once I cleaned that up it went away but
I didn't know that at the time so as I
would to your point about what you're
feeling when you're visualizing it
matters a lot what I would be feeling
when I was visualizing a meeting or
whatever is anxiety because I was
feeling it at the time I had generalized
anxiety so no matter what I was
visualizing I felt anxious while I was
doing it and so I would get this feeling
of dread coming into like whatever this
thing was going to be and when I tried
to use visualization I couldn't conjure
the right images I couldn't get the
right feeling so I was like ah God I
don't I don't know that I want to use
this now what I did find worked better
although now I think if I were to use
your method of really trying to embody
the feeling it would work a lot better
but I would describe it either in
written words or I would do like an
internal actual monologue where instead
of trying to conjure the images I would
say the words I would say things in my
mind you walk into the room everybody's
stoked that you're there yes you sit
down powerfully so even though I wasn't
feeling it as much as I wanted to be I
was painting a psychotically clear
because it's not about the visualization
right remember the the example of the
blind person the person born blind does
that mean that visualization doesn't
work for them no it's about the feeling
whether you use words or you use visuals
it's about the feeling that it's
generating
yeah it's interesting when I think about
the brain and how it is a caloric hog
you have an impulse from an evolutionary
perspective to be lazy effectively and
then so you your brain myelinates right
so okay we're going to think this a lot
we're going to feel this a lot then I'm
going to myelinate these neurons
together so neurons that fire together
wire together what they're talking about
is that myelination process so that it's
easier to think and feel that thing
whatever you do repeatedly and I feel
like that's a big part of why
visualization is going to work one you
can interrupt your negative feelings as
you are dreading this thing by forcing
yourself to imagine it going well to
think about all the things you would
need to do for it to go right and then
also if you do that enough your brain is
going to be like oh I guess this feeling
of feeling Good Feeling accomplished
like it's going to work I'm going to be
doing this a lot so I better make this
easier to do
and so now you're in the right Zone walk
people through though what happened to
you at the Taekwondo tournament because
it's right right very interesting right
right
um
I was talking about how when I was 17
years old well before before so my first
ever trip to the United States I came
here as a martial artist to compete at
the U.S open uh Taekwondo championships
just like Bianca andrescu saw herself
winning the US Open when I was 17 years
old I visualized myself being an
international martial arts fighter and
um the story in that book the story in
that book there are two parts to the
story so first I gotta tell the preface
before I even had the balls to visualize
myself being an international martial
arts fighter competing at the U.S open
in Colorado Springs in 1993. I had to
see some evidence that visualization
worked now when I was growing up as a
teenager I had really really bad skin
disease so my face was covered in acne
and it really affected my
self-confidence
um I remember growing up I didn't have
friends I considered myself
ugly I
never went out on a date with a girl
even though I had many crushes until I
was maybe 22. wow I had very little
self-confidence in terms of who I was as
a person because of my skin now when I
was 17 I read in a book on visualization
that the skin is the organ that science
shows is most susceptible to the human
mind and so armed with this I started
practicing creative visualization now
the model I used came from Jose Silva
um Jose Silva who founded the Silva
method which is I said to be fully
transparent I later acquired the rights
to that and that's now on my value okay
but what he said was you're visualizing
your skin getting better and there's a
particular modality and you're doing it
at a relaxed level of mind the alpha
brainwave frequency three times a day
each visualization session takes three
minutes so I had five years of bad skin
it started at 13. now I was 17 years old
five years of bad skin and I did this
silver methodology this is the same
imagery therapy I spoke about earlier
that Dr o Carl Simonton tested in five
weeks my skin healed so again the
protocol was three minutes a day three
times a day so nine minutes total in
five weeks my skin healed my pimples
disappeared armed with that I was like
wow this stuff is awesome what else can
I do so the next thing was improving
sporting performance my father had
enrolled me in Taekwondo classes to
build up my confidence because I
honestly didn't really have that much
and I decided I want to take this to the
next level I want to get a second degree
black belt which I did and then I want
to compete at the U.S open but unlike
many other athletes
I was obsessed with seeing with just
being at the US Open and seeing America
I didn't actually see myself winning a
medal which was stupid stupid stupid so
I show up at the U.S open in Colorado
Springs I got that far I show up for the
Championships and I'm wearing these
thick glasses I was that much of a nerd
you know those giant glasses from the
late 90s like the lenses go all the way
down you can clean your lenses by
licking them so I show up with these
giant glasses my power is minus 700
short-sighted so the glasses are this
thick and these are sports glasses in
Malaysia you can fight with these
classes in the USA apparently not I get
in the ring and though referee blows a
whistle and he's like yo kid you can't
wear those glasses here and I'm like
what do you mean and he goes
I don't care if you can do this in your
country this is in America your glasses
break a piece of glass enters your eye
you sue us all for 10 million dollars
take those glasses off so I'm like but I
can't see without these glasses remember
this was 1993 contact lens technology
wasn't really developed yet right he's
like I don't care take those glasses off
so I take off my glasses and I'm
freaking blind and I'm facing Glenn
Ryback the Dutch national champion and
if you know anything about Dutch people
they are crazy tall and Taekwondo is a
kicking spot so the taller and skinnier
you are the more an advantage you have
yeah within within 10 seconds I feel a
hit to my head and I'm on the ground I
get back up I'm like wait
is this guy
I I was ready ready to go for him if I
could actually see him
36 seconds into it the second kick I'm
on the floor again and at this point my
referee knows that I'm gonna be killed
if he doesn't get me out he crosses in
the towel I am out I was officially the
fastest knockout at the 1993 US Open
Taekwondo championships in Colorado
Springs I ended up in hospital Jesus
yeah so I I wish I'd seen myself
actually walk out of the ring with a
medal I saw myself walk in the ring
which I did walk in the ring proud
feeling all badass
um I wish I'd seen myself actually walk
out of the ring rather than walk out of
Colorado yes Medical Center yeah that's
hilarious visualization is such a big
deal especially for kids being able to
see yourself getting good at something
as a kid I was really not even just as a
kid into my 20s maybe even the beginning
of my 30s I really despised competition
and I would have told oh man people that
are competitive what [__] but the
reality was I was just afraid that I
couldn't win and so the idea of being
competitive and it wasn't conscious I
really did think it I really did think
that oh competitiveness is just it's
[__] but then as I started to
realize oh wait I can actually get
better at things that I suck at all of a
sudden then I was like whoa I kind of
want to compete like I want to put
myself out there I got really sad that I
didn't take Sports seriously because I
never had that camaraderie that the um
team sports vibe that you get every
sport I did I did solo because I thought
well if I fail at least I only take
myself down
and once I realized oh you can actually
get better at things then I was like oh
man that would have been a lot of fun to
really contribute to a team to be part
of something to push myself it's part of
why I like video games now to be
competitive because I only play I play
one game but it's you get to be a team
so my wife my sister and I play as a
fire team and I love the idea that you
can push yourself you can get better
improve and then like really put it out
there and compete but alas I did not
have visualization or meditation or any
of this stuff which Speaking of which
this is a big push for you guys at
Mindvalley what is missing in education
today what should kids be taught that
had I or anybody else been taught at
that age would make our lives better
so you want the easy answer the
difficult answer I actually want the
difficult one give me like okay so so so
we actually look at life from um the
Mind Valley model is to look at live
from 12 different dimensions
um and we just uh acquired a company
called lifebook we're quite uh um a
significant stake by the way brother
what you've done with the business is in
that's incredible man congratulations
it's amazing yeah we're pretty excited
so what we're trying to do with the
education model is this you know so many
of us were trained based on official
government sanctioned curriculums and
that isn't enough in the world today so
we stop with getting you through the
lifebook approach really clear on your
goals really clear on your vision when
you take lifebook by mind value you end
up with a hundred page book imagine a
hundred page book with absolute Clarity
in the life you want to create in all 12
of the different dimensions of your life
that we look at for each of these
Dimensions you understand your beliefs
what do I believe about love what do I
believe about my body you understand
your why why do you want to get healthy
why do you want to be a father you
understand your vision what does a
family look like to you what does a
business look like to you in intricate
detail and then you develop your
strategy how do you get there now once
you have this as a base our AI analyzes
this and as an AI analyzes this we start
creating a custom education from you we
have 61 of the world's greatest teachers
and everything from building a business
to leadership to meditation to
um to developing a monk-like brain to
speed reading that's Jim quick so many
of these teachers you've had on the show
to Parenting Dr shafali to self-esteem
Marissa appear and all of this education
is customized for you we're building an
education that's customized to your
vision of who you want to be not some
official curriculum but we're going to
go further the next thing we're going to
do is we're building a private social
network so we can now connect you to the
right people wherever in the world
you're traveling to you show up in
Berlin we'll be able to say okay Tom
these are five people you need to meet
in Berlin because these people can help
you with your vision they've already
figured out some aspects of this Vision
all these are people that you can help
and the third thing that we're going to
do is supplementation because the food
we take today isn't healthy enough so
we're developing we're working with some
incredible scientists to develop
supplement lines that can put you in the
right state to move towards your vision
whether it is health and wellness brain
optimization or maybe Focus maybe
creativity maybe put you in a more
loving state so your your dates and your
relationships are juicier so these three
things are really important and this is
what we are working on now we are we are
fairly complete with the first thought
which is the education The Social
Network the supplements all of that is
coming in the next two years what are
the 12 areas that you have broken this
down in so so
we won't have time to go into all of the
era but I'll give you a couple
School tells you pretty much prepares
you for your career it's designed to get
you a job I believe in the 1920s there's
a there's a legend we don't know if it's
true that Calvin Coolidge said that said
this the purpose of education is to
create cogs in the wheel submission of
Industry
and that's a pretty little Housey way to
define education right so we look at
this we look at areas such as your
physical body
your intellectual capacity how fast are
you learning how fast are you growing
your emotional states what are your
persistent emotions that you experience
from the time you wake up to the time
you go to sleep
we also look at areas that relate to
your relationship with other people your
social life who are your friends what do
you do with your friends we don't set
goals for our social life but it's
important it goes for your well
how often are you connected to other
inspiring individuals that can Elevate
you how do you serve your friends who
are the people that you are closest to
all of these matter I'm sure you've
heard the Jim Rome quote we are the sum
of the people we are closest to
then we look at goals for your
relationship life you look at goals for
your parenting life and then you look at
goals for what you're trying to create
so some of the other categories are
money your career
we look at your life Vision which is
your legacy what you want to leave
to the planet when you die so there are
12 categories in each of these
categories you are going really really
really deep within the four questions
it's really interesting man that's it is
fascinating to watch education change
before our very eyes
I've heard you say that look if you can
get an education for free go for it
amazing
um but if not you're probably better off
with something like Mindvalley where do
you think I firmly believe I firmly
believe that the quality of your life
will be better significantly better
if you are a mind value member then if
you have a University degree from 98 of
the universities in the world
it's a full statement but makes sense
one would think you'd build that which
you really want to see in the world do
you guys ever plan to get into hard
skills like engineering or things like
that or not your specialty you think
it's being done well elsewhere no the
reason for that is because they are they
are great companies that do that if you
want to learn programming you know you
go to plural site they are great digital
academies if you want to learn to be a
marketer but the fact is that is not
what makes us I've been a programmer
I've been a writer I've been a marketer
these were all just phases of my life
I'd go deep into one of these when I
want to what Mindvalley is focused on
are life skills that are important for
the entirety of your life
no matter what age you are being able to
understand parenting conscious parenting
right now teacher for that is shafali
sabari is going to be important even if
you're a grandparent you want to be good
to your grandkids you're going to have
and you might have nephews or nieces
being able to understand your body is
important no matter what phase of your
life you're in so we look at the skills
which are truly important I believe
that my life would have been
significantly richer if I'd spend time
understanding my body
to the degree which I would I I'd spend
even a semester at University learning
computer engineering no doubt if you'd
met me when I was 25 what would you have
told me about parenting should I do it
I would say
it's up to you right I think in today's
world I don't think everybody needs to
have kids I think overpopulation is is
is a crisis
um but I know from my perspective as a
father parenting is probably the most
rewarding thing you can experience
parent parenting and love to be and both
of them are very widely connected being
madly in love with someone and having
that beautiful life together and having
kids I think these are two things that
provide us so much fulfillment yeah it's
interesting I'm I'm sort of the same
well I'm not sort of the same I am the
same I am very grateful that people have
kids I think somebody has to do it uh
but for me right every time the only
real way to say it is I really want to
have kids but I really want to not have
kids more just a little bit more than I
want to have kids so it's tough it is uh
I think it's ready-made fulfillment so
if somebody were to ask me I would say
like you should really think long and
hard before you don't have kids I think
most people the default answer is
probably the right answer which is to
have kids
do it well do it consciously like be
aware of what you're doing but that
feels like for the most people it's
gonna give them that the deepest sense
of
fulfillment is I think the the right
word Nature's sort of in-bake thing but
going back to um overpopulation what do
you what do you think about uh people
like Elon Musk who are more worried
about the flip side
so I
I love Elon uh elon's mom may musk is
one of our teachers online now right
yeah she teaches a program on for women
over 40 on going out there and
conquering the world so I'm a big big
big fan of the musk family absolutely
huge fans of the musk family
um but I don't know if I agree with Elon
that our biggest crisis right now is is
that Humanity might be wiped out by an
asteroid I believe our biggest crisis
could well be climate change
and I appreciate Elon for what he's
doing with Tesla because he's tackling
two two very different things right I
don't know if overpopulation is our
biggest problem right now sorry I don't
know if it's our biggest problem right
now gotcha yeah that to me I think is
um I haven't looked into it closely
enough to have a really strong opinion
but it is
very disconcerting like when you look at
what's going on in Japan and you see
like we are getting in certain countries
for sure we're not at replacement levels
we've been well under Japan's been well
under for more than a decade I think the
US now has been in uh non-replacement
level so it'd be interesting to see how
people respond to that
it's pretty fascinating man the world is
so complex and getting into things like
um
reading I'm sure you've read uh no eval
harare's book yeah
um there have been a few books that I've
read recently about how like
how things have come to be and the level
of complexity and the way that things
bump into each other and evolve into the
next thing have you read Ray dalio's
principles for dealing with a changing
World Order oh dude you're gonna love it
it's I mean it's terrifying it's very
unnerving I had to stop reading it at
night because it was like freaking me
out a bit but it's actually influenced
my decision making and it's really got
me thinking about
uh this idea so his core thesis is
basically this there are only so many
personality types and because of that
human nature is what it is and so we
bump into each other in the same ways
over and over and over and that's why
history Rhymes and because there are
only so many different personality types
and there are only so many different
situations like you can actually chart
them out and so he plots out the six
phases that any Empire goes through and
basically that he's looked at I forget
he spent some ungodly amount of money
like over 100 million dollars if I'm not
mistaken researching the LA I think he
went in like the last 2000 years but
with a high focus on the last 500 years
and chronicled every Empire as it Rose
and fell and then charting where the U.S
is the current leader of the the the
current world leader uh that they're the
sixth phase is basically total societal
collapse and he puts America somewhere
in Phase five which is like the decline
and so I'm like uh a guy that makes all
of his money off of understanding macro
Trends on a global level who spent over
a hundred million dollars researching
all of these different Cycles is like
Ops
maybe we should really stop and be
thoughtful about where things are going
yeah it's interesting because I never
like I always just wanted to talk
mindset like that was just actually
ironically all I ever planned to talk
about was business but to explain to
people how to actually start a business
side and talk about mindset
and now it's like yeah I might have to
start looking more broadly and really
thinking about in fact you talked about
this I don't know if it was in the book
I've read basically everything you've
ever written or one of your interviews
where you talk you quoted somebody I
think if we all contribute our grain of
sand like you don't have to want to
tackle the whole world give me that
quote
I wish I could remember it basically
something like don't try to don't try to
save the world just contribute your own
positive Greener sand you don't I think
the quote was you don't have to save the
world just don't [__] it up for the next
Generation also a very powerful way to
say it so as you build out this
incredible machine designed to help
people not [__] up the Next Generation
Um what are like some of the the things
that have been most life-changing for
you so for me
um most life-changing practices probably
have been have been so many because I
study everything in fact starting
tomorrow I go on two different Retreats
just to learn about being human right so
I'm constantly discovering things but
some of the things that have been
incredible for me number one has been
um
this is in no particular order
meditation for sure the silver method
the six phase both of those fall under
meditation number two
high intensity interval training
strength training we have a program in
mind Valley called 10x and that has
completely changed my body
um I've been able to to just shift the
way I look shift my energy levels shift
my cognition gestures and in a short
amount of time right that's optimized
what are you guys doing to optimize how
are you able to get results in a short
amount of time well let me let me finish
the five first and then we can dive
deeper and then wild fit so while fit is
a nutrition program I realize how badly
I was eating and I transformed my eating
and that also transformed my health
while that is not owned by mind value
but we have an exclusive license to
publish it Life Book Live book is that
program I told you about we just took a
significant stake in the company
lifebook is where you create such
Clarity on your life that you have a
hundred page book on your entire life
and then the the fifth one is the um the
concept of the Mind Valley quest which
is dedicating 20 minutes a day
to learning something and so on mind
value you pick a topic so you want to
pick conscious Parenting by Dr Chapala
you want to pick improving your memory
by Jim quick or you want to pick maybe
you know leadership with Keith ferrasi
20 minutes a day for 30 days you go deep
into that topic and we lay you on
behaviors habits routines so that you
evolve into that person so these five
things have probably have a massive
outsized impact on my life talk to me
about the diet and exercise stuff so
let's start with the the earlier
question how do you guys what do you do
in the program that optimizes for
results in a short amount of time so uh
with 10x
um basically they are
six exercises you do and these six
exercises give you the maximum maximum
reach over your body they cover about 85
to 90 percent of all the major muscle
groups in your body okay so that's
called 10x Alpha now what we are
measuring there in terms of health is
something called power to weight ratio
power to weight ratio So based on your
weight
in a in a particular
slice of Time how much power can you
output
okay so if you optimize for power to
weight ratio you find that an elite
athlete so so firstly everything is in
the metric system
um so it's kilograms so it's kilograms
over minutes in the gym if sorry it's
it's total kilograms lifted and the
number of times you've lifted these
kilograms over minutes in the gym over
your body weight so an elite athlete
would have a power to weight ratio in in
around the tens
um the average person would be maybe two
to three to four
so
um if you are my age if you're over 40
if you're above eight that's really
really really good so you're optimizing
for that how much power can your body
generate in a slice of time so the 10x
Alpha routine uh so again it depends on
how much time you have if you can only
go to the gym once a week the alpha
routine takes precisely 12 minutes so
you literally get to the gym and then
there are six exercises that you do two
or for the leg two are push exercises to
a pull exercises so the leg exercises
might be calves and they might be a leg
press the push exercise might be the
chest press and the shoulder press the
Pull exercise might be a lat pull down
and then a row okay these cover 85 to 90
of the muscles in your body but you're
doing it in a specific way and that
specific way is about so let's say
you're doing the chest press it's two
seconds push and then
it's three seconds it's it's three
seconds on the reverse why because
studies show that on the on the reverse
it's about a thirty percent uh greater
muscle growth so you're optimizing for
muscle growth it's done with a really
high weight so about 90 of what you can
do as your one rep maximum and it's done
in 60 seconds you open up the Mind
Valley app you listen to a particular
metronome sound
tick tick tick that's one wrap so it's
about five seconds so you do 12 reps in
about 60 seconds without resting you go
to the next machine without resting you
go to the next machine and so assuming
it takes about a minute to set up the
machine and sit down the entire thing
takes 12 minutes but you're going
maximum weight it is freaking painful
but we teach them a philosophy called
chase the pain understanding that that
pain that pain means you're doing it
that pain so especially in the last reps
if you can feel that pain that's when
you're creating the greatest muscle
stimulation and so um it's it's a
phenomenal routine so I try to go to the
gym two to three times a week but still
it's about 12 minutes each time not bad
it's fast yeah what have you changed in
your diet so in the diet I followed the
protocol
um called wildfit so wild it is a really
really really interesting diet routine
so I did it and I went from this was
2016 when I did it and I used to be
chubby I used to have about a 22 body
fat if you look at me an older episodes
of impact Theory I kind of look
different I went from 22 body fat to
about 13 to 14 body fat which is what I
am right now okay that's considered
pretty good for a man over 40.
um and um while fit is 90 days and you
trick your body into giving up all the
bad conditioned Behavior you understand
where hunger comes from you understand
emotional eating you understand how your
love for your mother may be making you
eat certain things that you shouldn't be
eating and you stop the Cravings so for
example before wildfit I would have two
Starbucks lattes a day or a day two
Starbucks lattes and um I didn't even
really think that was bad for me because
I think it's about 250 calories per
latte now I only drink black coffee if I
even take a latte it just doesn't feel
right now it doesn't mean you never eat
ice cream
latte would have milk yeah it just means
that you don't crave it if if there's an
office party and they're serving pizza
you don't feel like you need to eat it
you understand all of the social
conditioning that's taking place causing
you to to feel like you need to grab
that slice from the social pressure to
the conditioning that you get from
watching a Pizza Hut ad on television
and as a result people go through a
transformation now Erica meets the
creator of wildfit also created the
concept called BCD behavioral change
Dynamics and he's actually changing your
behavior he's a former Tony Robbins
trainer so he's applying a little bit of
NLP there but in 90 days people see a
phenomenal transformation so after I did
it I put a hundred of my employees on it
and the record weight loss was 91
and then we had two employees who lost
51 pounds in all of this in three months
whether if you had to boil it down so
carnivore diet eat only meat paleo uh
eat only things found in nature of it is
not really a diet and that's the thing
diets don't really work the the the the
the failure rate on diets is astonishing
it's over 90 because diets are often
based on Willpower and willpower is
tough it's tough to do things just based
on Willpower while fit is like a reset
of your brain you just
show up differently you start eating
differently and Eric is such a genius as
a trainer like this this dude is
incredible when I put him on stage at
Mindvalley he just spoke at mind Valley
University we had maybe 200 trainers he
got a score of 4.99 highest rated
speaker like and this is out of a
thousand people attending wow 4.99 right
this guy is masterful I think that's why
Tony Robbins used to put him on a stage
and so Eric knows how to flip the
switches in your brain completely
Mesmerize you to the point where you
think about your body and your food in a
different way but it's not just for
losing weight people see hair grow back
people's skin improve my skin improves
so much on wildfit I was having hair
loss that stopped
um my energy levels changed I need to
eat a Mars bar at the office at 5 pm
as an afternoon snack to keep my energy
up I did not realize that I was just you
know I was giving myself a sugar Spike
and I was so so hooked on sugar I needed
sugar to fuel my productivity now when
you do wildfit he pulls your internal
engine away from Sugar Boom all the way
to fat and your body is now trained to
burn fat rather than sugar
I was going to ask like what that core
constituency is so he's getting you off
of fat sounds like he's pulling so I'm
not the expert I've been through it um
mind Valley is the exclusive publisher
of it I'm not the expert you should have
Eric on this show but while fit is
formidable very very intriguing dude
what you build is incredible the book is
amazing where can people follow you so
you can follow me on Instagram at Vision
at vis-e-n I love it brother thanks for
coming everybody if you haven't already
be sure to subscribe until next time my
friends be legendary take care peace
awesome if we're not a deep narcissist
we have that thermostat where things
start hurting us a little bit and we
bring ourselves back up through this
self-esteem mechanism so we don't get
too depressed and too down there's an
element of unreality to that but it's
very valuable and I would never ever
ever want to burst that